# data-science-projects

Various small projects I've worked on to practice data science techniques.

- Clustering investigates applications of k-means clustering and hierarchical clustering to tease out hidden relationships in Japanese economic and societal data. With economic data (GDP, consumer price index, foreign currency exchange rate, unemployment figures, inflation estimates, etc.) and societal data (fertility rates, life expectancies, etc.), can one identify different periods of Japan's history, i.e. pre-bubble economy, bubble economy, and post-bubble economy life simply using clustering methods?

- Simple logistic regression exercise to determine separation boundaries between wines deemed good/bad by an expert sommelier using various chemical properties of the wine as input features. This simple model is able to fairly accurately categorize good/bad wines for various choices of feature inputs.

- Investigation of oil-field pump data with the aim of obtaining so-called 'pumpcards', i.e. plots of tension in pumping rods as a function of position from noisy, raw data of the pumping rod's acceleration and tension. Such cards are of importance to oilfield diagnostic companies eager to digitize existing pumps to provide live diagnostics that can increase pump efficiency, identify mechanical faults, and assess oil field conditions below the earth from above-ground data. In this project I worked with real oil pump data and applied a host of data science techniques to obtain the pumpcard that would then be given to an expert petroleum engineer for analysis. This dataset, owing to the noisiness of sensor data, required extensive use of band-pass filtering techniques to create a useable dataset that could then be further worked on. The cleaned and smoothed acceleration data was then put through a series of numerical integrations, optimized to avoid numerical drift, in order to obtain the re-constructed position of the pumping mechanism. This project was very fun to work on given that it allowed me to practice standard data science techniques in a context that required some background physics knowledge.
